MLOps Competition Blog Post for ChequeEasy (#144)
zenml-io/blog.zenml.io: _posts/2022-12-16-month-of-mlops-third-prize-cheque-easy.md

One great thing about using ZenML to setup pipelines is that it makes everything easily reproducible. Each pipeline is made up a sequence of steps and the outputs corresponding to each step are saved in the artifact store corresponding to your ZenML stack - making it very easy to track things.

With ZenML it was also very easy to pick and choose different components to setup stacks (infrastructure) for running the created pipelines. You could even create different stacks to run different kinds of pipelines depending on your use case. I used the stacks described below to build the necessary pipelines for my solution.

Stack for Annotation & Data Processing pipelines included the following components:

* Orchestrator: Local Orchestrator
* Artifact Storage: Azure Blob storage
* Secrets Manager: Azure Keyvault
* Annotator: Label Studio

Stack for Training & Inference pipelines included the following components:

* Orchestrator: Local Orchestrator
* Artifact Storage: Local Storage
* Secrets Manager: Local Secrets Manager
* Experiment Tracker: [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/)
* Model Deployer: [MLflow](https://mlflow.org/)

## Annotation Pipelines

> While I did use a [Kaggle dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/medali1992/cheque-images) to fine tune my model. I also wanted to keep my solution as close to the real-world setting as possible. In my experience, companies have to spend a good amount of time on annotation when solving complex problems involving use of unstructured data. So I thought it would be useful if the solution could include support for annotating new data to train the model. This component consisted of 2 small pipelines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While I did use a [Kaggle dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/medali1992/cheque-images) to fine tune my model, I also wanted to keep my solution as close to the real-world setting as possible. In my experience, companies have to spend a good amount of time on annotation when solving complex problems involving use of unstructured data. So I thought it would be useful if the solution could include support for annotating new data to train the model. This component consisted of 2 small pipelines:
```

### Create Metadata
This step was used to prepare the metadata json files corresponding to train, validation and test splits of our data which would be required to prepare a [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/index) compatible dataset.

### Store Data
This step was used to combine and load the train, test and val splits of the data as a common dataset and push to the [Hugging Face Hub](https://huggingface.co/datasets/shivi/cheques_sample_data). 

### Training Pipeline with Continuous Deployment

The Training pipeline defines the end-to-end process of training the Donut model to predict the required cheque details. I leveraged MLFlow for both experiment tracking as well as model deployment as part of this pipeline.
This pipeline also includes support for continuous deployment. Once model training is complete, the model can be evaluated on a test dataset and can then be deployed to a REST API endpoint, provided that the accuracy of the new model meets a certain threshold.

The Training pipeline can be summarized as follows:

![training_pipeline](../assets/posts/mlops-comp-2022-cheque-easy/training_pipeline_cheque_easy.png)

### Load config, model, processor

> Hugging Face's transformers library was being used to fine-tune the model. To setup the Donut model using `transformers` we needed to load the configuration required to instantiate the model, the processor associated with the model along with the actual pretrained model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hugging Face's [transformers library](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/index) was used to fine-tune the model. To setup the Donut model using `transformers` we needed to load the configuration required to instantiate the model, the processor associated with the model along with the actual pretrained model. 
```

Thanks to ZenML, I was easily able to build reproducible and maintainable pipelines with including support for annotation, experiment tracking, model deployment, pipeline orchestration, secret management, artfifact storage, etc.

## Gradio Demo
Finally, I created a simple [demo](https://huggingface.co/spaces/shivi/ChequeEasy) of the project to interact with the trained model using gradio and deployed it with help of Hugging Face Spaces.

## Future Work
There's definitely a lot of scope in terms of improving the performance of the Donut model so that it can work well with different kinds of cheque image inputs.
Since this competition was more about MLOps, I built a basic working model that would suffice for solving the use case and spent more effort on the MLOps side of the solution.
Going forward, I would definitely like to focus on the modeling aspects of this solution. I would even like to test out Donut's multi-lingual capabilities to process cheque images written in languages other than English.

> On the MLOps side of the solution, I would like to explore ZenML's DeepChecks integration for data and model validation to further enhance my solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the MLOps side of the solution, I would like to explore [ZenML's DeepChecks integration](https://blog.zenml.io/deepchecks-and-zenml/) for data and model validation to further enhance my solution.
```

## 💭 Conclusions

> As an individual, I had so much fun participating in this competition. It turned out to be a great opportunity to show case my work to top most MLOps industry experts, build my own small open source project, learn from the ZenML community as well as contribute back to ZenML. It's hard to get so much out of just one competition and it was only possible because of how well the ZenML team organized it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an individual, I had so much fun participating in this competition. It turned out to be a great opportunity to showcase my work to the topmost MLOps industry experts, build my own small open-source project, learn from the ZenML community as well as contribute back to ZenML. It's hard to get so much out of just one competition and it was only possible because of how well the ZenML team organized it.
```
